
Reviewer’s report: MN-18-1820-MJ, Ross et al

This is an interesting paper. I apologize for the tardy report. I have been traveling for the past 10 days by unconventional means that have spared me limited energy or internet access.

The phenomenology reported here is enough to justify publication. The theoretical interpretation is plausible in the large but could be tightened.


1. Too much credit is given to Sirko & Goodman 2003. That paper was
mainly concerned with the implications of self-gravity for the
spectrum emitted by the outer parts of the disc r ≫ rg. Little if any
consideration was given to the boundary conditions at the inner edge
of the disc (zero vs. nonzero torque).

       We can add more citations of other models. We're not actually
       *using* Sirko & Goodman except as a guide to a semi-realistic
       disk temperature structure. They're good at 100r_g and out,
       which is relevant.


2. Because the present authors are concerned with inner parts of the
disc, they should be more careful in considering relativistic
effects. In particular, the ISCO probably lies at r < 6GM/c2 = 3rS
because AGN black holes have significant rotation (e.g., Reynolds 214,
SSRv 183, 277; Capellupo et al. 2016, MN 460, 212). The specific
binding energy at the ISCO is therefore probably larger than
1-8/9≈0.057, so that even if there were no torque at the ISCO, the
ratio of the bolometric luminosity to the monochromatic luminosity at
any point in their spectra (e.g. λ = 5100 ̊A) would be larger than they
suppose even in a steadily accreting thin disc. Naturally, however,
the ISCO would not be expected to change on human timescales.

    	 I'm actually not sure what the ref's point is with this
    	 comment. We don't argue for major changes in the spin. You
    	 can fit our continua with higher spin models. Indeed, see
    	 attached mcd_gap_v3_4_b1 files, where I redid our Figure 3
    	 for maximal spin with r_in=1.2 and efficiency=0.42 (I also
    	 had to change the normalization, of course). I had to move
    	 the suppression radius in when the disk inner radius moved in
    	 for the model that justifies our 'bald statement' in item 4,
    	 but otherwise they look quite similar to the non-spinning
    	 case--we don't have leverage on the spin.


3. Although I agree that a thermal or viscous instability is a more
plausible interpretation of their data, the arguments given here
against transient absorption/obscuration are not wholly convincing and
could be improved. For the authors’ values of the black-hole mass (7 ×
108 M⊙) and Eddington ratio (0.07), the rest- frame emission at λ ≤
5100 ̊A comes from r ≤ 0.01 pc (≈ 225 rg , as they estimate). An
obscuring cloud just large enough to block our view of this region,
but in circular orbit at the sublimation radius (0.4 pc) would cross
its own diameter in approximately six years, which is comparable to
the time interval spanned by the spectroscopic observations (≈ 7.7
yr). However, were the “UV collapse” caused by absorption, there would
be other implications. The authors should determine what (non-grey)
reddening law would be needed to explain the differences among the
spectra, and whether, for any reasonable gas-to-dust ratio and
turbulent broadening, the absorber would produce transient optical
absorption lines (since the optical emission is obscured by only a
factor ∼ 2); and finally, whether such a small absorber could affect
the infrared flux (probably not).

   	    Obviously, the ref needs to learn to read. Equally
   	    obviously, we can't say that exactly but... can we say
   	    'see section 3.2.2 where we describe the reddening law
   	    required to fit the 2010 spectra (which also fits Guo)'?
   	    And... their scenario might, just MIGHT work for us (I
   	    mean, that's some wacky looking dust), but the physical
   	    scenario won't work for Guo thanks to their short
   	    timescale... and so we're done.


4. The bald statement (p. 8, col. 2) “The 2010 spectrum can not be fit
with...a simple MTB model with an alternate temperature profile”
requires justification. Really? The continua cannot be fit even if
Teff(r) is a completely free function? Why not? Of course no
superposition of local blackbodies will explain the emission lines,
but that is already a known limitation of thin-disc models for
“ordinary” QSOs.

       See the dotted line in Figure 3, which is a fit designed to
       *TRY* to fit the turnover, with an arbitrary
       normalization. I've screwed with T(r) too. Maybe I should plot
       a single blackbody to make them happy? It's too fat. We could
       improve the caption to highlight this.


5. The authors are too quick to dismiss thermal instabilty along the
lines of the works by Hameury, Lasota, and colleagues for dwarf novae
and X-ray binaries. It is known that radiation-pressure-dominated
discs are thermally unstable (Lightman & Eardley 1974; Jiang, Stone, &
Davis 2013). Whereas the authors consider (and then dismiss in favour
of cold absorbers) simple thermal instability in the “hot”
direction—leading to an RIAF—it could equally go in the opposite
direction, leading to a cold, low-M ̇ , gas-pressure-dominated state,
since the growth rates of linear instabilities are independent of the
sign of their initial perturbations. The thermal timescale (αΩ)−1 at
225rg is ∼ 4 yr, in the right range to explain these
observations. Admittedly, it is worth asking why all QSOs do not
undergo propagating thermal instabilities of this sort. But perhaps
they do: it would be interesting to compare the numbers of
changing-look QSOs with what might be expected on such a model. To do
this, however, would be beyond the scope of the present paper.

      We could add this as an option if they want. The original idea
      was the disk cools starting at the ISCO to explain phenomenology and
      it's  thinner to account for longer propagation return. And I don't
      think it could explain Guo because of the timescales.
      
