
The proposed explanation for the UV drop, an outward-propagating
cooling front due to an (unspecified) loss of contact between the
quasi-statically rotating disk and the plunging region, would apply to
the continuum only, yet the Mg II 2800A emission lines in that region
makes a similarly drastic plunge. So I don't think that's
consistent. In fact I'm not aware of any such behavior in the Mg II
line, which is usually relatively sedate, and the lines from the
region red-ward of the sudden "continuum collapse" do not show a
drastic diminution. So I have to wonder if the data in the UV region
are correct.
    
	Bold text to MNRAS draft added. 


I have some other doubts. I consulted someone who has written papers
on the ISCO boundary conditions and the energy transfer and got a very
skeptical response. The mechanism is unspecified, and only a toy model
has been presented. And I don't see that the authors have shown the
toy model fits the anomalous spectrum.

    	  (New York) TODO:: Toy model to fit the UV collapse spectrum. 

As the authors explain convincingly, the SS73 quasistatic disk model
has shown no predictive power, and is contradicted by many
observations, such as the microlensing sizes and the mentioned
variability timescales, so I don't think it can serve as a robust
starting point for the toy model. (Also regarding the timescales,
their reference is to A Lawrence 2018. That paper is the epitome of
fake news in that this problem was spelled out in detail in Alloin et
al 1985, (ApJ 288, 205: please read Sec IV a) and has been discussed
since then by many authors.)

      Now that I've read Alloin et al. (1985, ApJ, 288, 205), this seems
      like an early Changing-Look AGN reference, so entirely relevant.
      However, I'm not exactly sure what the detailed point is here.

      Ultiamtely, I've reworked the first several paragraphs in the Introduction.
      The Lawerence Nature Astro comment was great for Nature Astro motivation,
      but I've now out this in a list of the CLQ references.
      

## Below are Referee 2s comments, a lot of which seem kinda reasonable,

The manuscript proposes a new physical model to explain the optical/IR
variability in changing-look quasars. This is scientifically
significant in the field, as changing-look quasars were just found in
recent years, and potentially many would be found in future surveys,
e.g., LSST. In general, the paper meets the standard of Nature
Astronomy. 

1) There is a bit difference with J2317+0005, of which no variations
occur for the broad emission lines, whereas the broad lines have
significant variations in J1100-0053 as stated in the manuscript. This
would be strong argument for the accretion-triggered
mechanism. Unfortunately, there is no quantitative description of the
variation of broad lines. Therefore, I would suggest authors to give
the measurements of various emission lines, especially the hydrogen
lines. As shown in the paper, the triggering event likely happened at
2007, thus there would be ample time for broad lines to response to
the variation of continuum in 2010. However, it’s not evident in
Figure 2. The measurements of lines would be necessary.

       Added a table and accompanying text.
       (NPR) TODO:: Make sure the text, statements and line measurements
       are all consistent and relevant here.       


2) There is inconsistence between the DECaLS g,r,z-band datasets in
section 1.1 of supplemental material and the light curve in Figure 1
of the paper. Please make consistence check: ‘DECaLS, …there are 8, 3,
and 9exposures in the g,r, and z-band respectively, and g- and r- band
observations span roughly a year (56707<=gMJD<=56727 and
56367<=rMJD<=56367 ?), while …’ with Figure 1.

	  Updated and added the new overview paper from the
	  DESI Legacy Imaging Surveys reference.
	  
		   
3) In supplemental material: several models are discussed, with the
reference of Stern et al. (2018). However, in the ‘References’ the
status of Stern et al. (2018) is not clear, published, submitted, or
in prep. ? Correspondingly, the source J1052+1519 in Table 1, used for
comparison, doesn’t help us in understanding the paper. This needs to
be clarified.

	This is a fair point, and I've just fleshed this out a bit at the
	end of Section 2.4.1. 


4) My understanding is that the change of non-zero torque to
zero-torque in combination with the absorption of the cooler clumps
produce the cutoff of blue spectrum. There are two concerned
issues. One is the dynamics of the cooler clumps/scattering clouds,
are they stable ? how long will they survive ? While there are good
illustrations of the spectra of non-zero and zero torque in Figure 2,
and curves used to argue against alternative models in Figure 1 of the
supplemental material, it might be equally important to try to fit the
2010 spectrum using the proposed model, at least illustratively.

     Think this is a New York TODO.
     

5) It should be noticed that the four-epoch spectra only give the
upper limit of the timescale. The feasibility of the model should be
discussed in case of the possible shorter timescale.

	  Can be addressed at the same time as immediately above. 
  

6) Typo: page 5, 2nd paragraph, line 5: a factor or ten → a factor of
ten

	Fixed. 


7) A try on the correlation analysis between the optical and WISE IR
light curves (i.e., Figure 1) will be interesting, in order to see any
time delay with the though sparse datasets.

     Think this is Graham et al. territory, so I'm not going to address this. 



     Below are Referee 3s comments, a lot of which seem kinda reasonable,
     but should be directly addressed with the change of format to the MNRAS.

     However, it does seem we will need to discuss how our new model
     fits in with the heating/cooling fronts in Menou et al. (1999) and 
     Hameury et al. 2006.



This paper reports on a new changing look quasar, and proposes that
this intriguing phenomenon is due to changes in the physical
conditions at the inner edge of the accretion disc and subsequent
propagation of heating/cooling waves. There are several known changing
look quasars, and, although interesting, the addition of a new member
of this class is not of sufficient interest for a publication in
Nature Astronomy. The proposed explanation is very interesting indeed,
but the paper is quite difficult to follow because some explanatory
details are missing and the evidences for the conclusion need to be
strengthened because of a number of inconsistencies.

The timescales are based on order of magnitude estimates of the
propagation time of heating and cooling fronts. These estimates are
uncertain by a factor of a few; moreover, they have been obtained in
the framework of the disc instability model (geometrically thin disc),
whereas here they are applied to a situation where the hot part of the
disc is slim and the cool part is thin. There is no reason for the
velocity of the front to be the same in both situations. It is also
stated that cooling fronts propagate faster than heating fronts; this
is not the case in the DIM, and the heating front velocity is larger
than that of cooling fronts by a factor of a few (see e.g. Menou,
Hameury & Stehle, MNRAS 305, 79). Agreements or discrepancies bases on
these rough order of magnitude estimates are therefore not very strong
arguments.

It is also unclear that a change in the boundary condition at the
inner disc edge can lead to the propagation of a cooling front. Discs
in which the zero torque boundary condition is applied and where the
temperature at the inner edge is small are found to be stable because
the local stability analysis no longer applies: radial temperature
gradients are large and this introduces heating/cooling terms that are
comparable to viscous heating or radiative cooling. As a matter of
fact, in the paper of Hameury et al of 2006, heating fronts move
outwards and cooling fronts move inwards; this the opposite situation
to the one presented here.

In the supplemental section, two scenarios are discussed: the
obscuration by an infalling cloud, which had been previously discussed
and rejected by LaMassa et al. (credit to this paper should be given
in this specific section),

   	Done. 

and two versions of an accretion disc
model. I could not figure out why switching to RIAF/ADAF can be
excluded from observational grounds and not the propagation of a
cooling front, since the transition to a RIAF/ADAF is assumed to take
place on a front propagation timescale (although no argument is given;
as the authors mention, standard disc theories are unable to predict
global changes, and since the physical reason for the transition from
a state to another is not well known, it is difficult to estimate on
what time scale it would take place. They also mention that
“wavelength absorption combined with lower disc emissivity is
required”; I have been unable to find out in their model wat is
causing this absorption.

	     (New York) TODO:: This is a "total energy under the spectrum
	     curve" argumnet, right??!
	   

I also do not understand why the authors use the model of Sirko &
Goodmann, who considered marginally self-gravitating discs, with
additional heating sources that are important at large distances
(1,000 – 100,000 rg) for bright QSOs.

The reason for their choice of parameters is not given (why 225 rg in
Eqs. (6) and (7)? why 80 rg in Fig. 2? Is h/r close to 0.05?).

     Idea::
     Maybe a bit late in the process, but what about including a wee
     table with the physical parameters that our best-fit model
     has, basically as a guide to these values....??
     
A final remark: the alpha-disc model assumes (i) that the disc is
geometrically thin, and that angular momentum is transported by
viscosity, parametrized according to Shakura and Sunyaev
prescription. Contrary to what is stated in the paper, the thermal
emission need not be treated as a superposition of blackbodies; and
the effective temperature dependence (r^(-3/4)) is not specific to the
alpha parametrization, but is independent from the nature of
viscosity, provided that the disk is geometrically thin, steady and
heat dissipation and angular momentum transport and caused by the
same, local mechanism.

      I've put this into the Introduction.
